docs/03-code-internals/12-pluginapi.md, before:

---
title: Using the PluginAPI in Site Customizations
short_title: PluginAPI
id: pluginapi
---

Using the [client side Plugin API](https://meta.discourse.org/t/a-new-versioned-api-for-client-side-plugins/40051) is the safest way to build Discourse Javascript plugins and themes while respecting backwards compatibility.

However, some people have made simple customizations using the Admin > Customization > CSS/HTML and dropping some Javascript into a `<script>` tag. Previously, it was very difficult to use the `withPluginApi` to access objects using the Discourse container.

In the latest tests-passed build of Discourse I've added the ability to use the pluginAPI via a site customization.

To use it, you just need to add some attributes to a script tag in your `</HEAD>` customization:

```html
<script type="text/discourse-plugin" version="0.1">
  // you can use the `api` object here!
  api.decorateCooked($elem => $elem.css({ backgroundColor: 'yellow' }));
</script>
```

When you save the customization, Discourse will transpile the ES2015 code within the tag so you can use the latest Javascript features. Additionally, it wraps the code in an initializer and runs it through `withPluginApi` so you don't have to bother with that. Just specify the version of the `api` object you want and Discourse will give it to you, providing safe backwards compatibility.

If the compilation of the ES2015 fails for some reason, when you view source on your page you'll see the error in a `<script type='text/discourse-js-error'>` block. Fix what it says and re-save your customization and you'll be good to go.

Commit message:

Update outdated references to `<script>`-based js/hbs themes (#64)

docs/03-code-internals/12-pluginapi.md, after:

---
title: Using the JS API
short_title: JS API
id: pluginapi
---

Discourse's JavaScript API allows themes and plugins to make extensive customizations to the user experience. The simplest way to use it is to create a new theme from the admin panel, click "Edit Code", and then head to the JS tab.

For file-based themes, the API can be used by creating a file in the `api-initializers` directory. For theme's that's `{theme}/javascripts/api-initializers/init-theme.gjs`, and for plugins, it's `{plugin}/assets/javascripts/discourse/api-initializers/init-plugin.js`. The content should be:

```gjs
import { apiInitializer } from "discourse/lib/api";

export default apiInitializer((api) => {
  // Your code here
});
```

All the available APIs are listed in the [`plugin-api.gjs` source code](https://github.com/discourse/discourse/blob/main/app/assets/javascripts/discourse/app/lib/plugin-api.gjs) in Discourse core, along with a short description and examples.

For a full tuturial, including examples of JS API usage, check out:

https://meta.discourse.org/t/theme-developer-tutorial-1-introduction/357796
